---
description: Description of '.debug' command in HyperDbg.
---

# .debug \(prepare and connect to debugger\)

### Command

> .debug

### Syntax

> .debug \[action \(remote \| prepare\)\] \[type \(serial \| namedpipe\)\] \[baud rate \(decimal value\)\] address

### Description

This command prepares debuggee for a remote connection or connects to a remote debuggee.

### Parameters

\[action \(remote \| prepare\)\]

          If you specify **"remote"** then it means that you want to connect to a debuggee or if you specify **"prepare"** then it means that you want to prepare the current machine to be debugged as debuggee.

\[type \(serial \| namedpipe\)\]

          If you want to use a serial port as the connection, you should choose **"serial"** and if you want to connect to a named pipe then you should specify **"namedpipe"**. Please note that **"namedpipe"** cannot be used in debuggee and it can be used only in the debugger.

\[baud rate \(decimal value\)\]

          This value shows the baud rate of the device. \(See remarks for more information\)

address

          COM port address or named pipe address. 

### Examples

The following command connects to a remote system \(**192.168.1.5**\) which the **HyperDbg** debugger listens on its **50000** \(by default\) ****port.

```text
HyperDbg >.connect 192.168.1.5
```

The following command connects to a remote system \(**192.168.1.5**\) which the HyperDbg debugger listens on its **50001** port.

```text
HyperDbg >.connect 192.168.1.5 50001
```

The following example connect to current system for **local debugging**.

```text
HyperDbg >.connect local
```

### IOCTL

None

### **Remarks**

1. The following values are valid baud rates for serial connections.

| Baud rate |
| :--- |
| **110** |
| **300** |
| **600** |
| **1200** |
| **2400** |
| **4800** |
| **9600** |
| **14400** |
| **19200** |
| **38400** |
| **56000** |
| **57600** |
| **115200** |
| **128000** |
| **256000** |

### Requirements

None

### Related

[.disconnect \(disconnect from a session\)](https://docs.hyperdbg.com/commands/meta-commands/.disconnect)

