---
description: Description of the '.debug' command in HyperDbg.
---

# .debug (prepare and connect to debugger)

### Command

> .debug

### Syntax

> .debug \[remote] \[serial|namedpipe] \[pause] \[Baudrate (decimal)] \[Address (string)]&#x20;
>
> .debug \[prepare] \[serial] \[Baudrate (decimal)] \[Address (string)]&#x20;
>
> .debug \[close]

### Description

This command prepares debuggee for a remote connection or connects to a remote debuggee.

{% hint style="warning" %}
Please note that you should first wait for reconnecting on the **debugger,** then connect to it in the **debuggee.**
{% endhint %}

### Parameters

**\[remote]**

If you specify `remote` then it means that you want to connect to a debuggee.

**\[prepare]**

If you specify `prepare` then it means that you want to prepare the current machine to be debugged as debuggee.

**\[close]**

&#x20;`close` means to close all the connections to the debuggee.

**\[serial|namedpipe]**

If you want to use a serial port as the connection, you should choose `serial`, and if you want to connect to a named pipe, then you should specify `namedpipe`. Please note that `namedpipe` cannot be used in debuggee, and it can be used only in the debugger.

**\[pause]**

In the case of choosing `remote` , specifies whether the debuggee should be paused after connection or not. In case you don't specify this argument, it means the debuggee won't be paused (halted) upon connection.

**\[serial]**

In the case of choosing `prepare`, only `serial` is supported as the type of connection.

**\[Baudrate (Decimal)]**

This value shows the baud rate of the device. (See [Remarks](https://docs.hyperdbg.org/commands/meta-commands/.debug#remarks) for more information)

**\[Address (string)]**

COM port address or named pipe address. (See [Remarks](https://docs.hyperdbg.org/commands/meta-commands/.debug#remarks) for more information)

### Examples

If you want to have a kernel debug connection, first, you should run the following command in a debugger (host). As you can see, you can change the `com3`to your COM port that is connected to the debuggee.

```
HyperDbg> .debug remote serial 115200 com3
```

If you want to use a named pipe instead of a COM port, you can execute the following command in the debugger (Host).

```
HyperDbg> .debug remote namedpipe \\.\pipe\HyperDbgPipe
```

Or if you want to immediately pause debuggee upon connection, you can execute the following command in the debugger (Host). Note that, a `pause` is added to the above command.

```
HyperDbg> .debug remote pause namedpipe \\.\pipe\HyperDbgPipe
```

After you tell the debugger to listen on a COM port or a named pipe, now you can run the following command in the debuggee.

```
HyperDbg> .debug prepare serial 115200 com2
```

If you want to disconnect from the debuggee, then you should run the following command.

```
HyperDbg> .debug close
```

### SDK

To connect to the target debuggee using the named pipe, you need to use the following function in `libhyperdbg`:

```clike
BOOLEAN
hyperdbg_u_connect_remote_debugger_using_named_pipe(const CHAR * named_pipe, BOOLEAN pause_after_connection);
```

To connect to the target debuggee using the COM port, you need to use the following function in `libhyperdbg`:

```clike
BOOLEAN
hyperdbg_u_connect_remote_debugger_using_com_port(const CHAR * port_name, DWORD baudrate, BOOLEAN pause_after_connection);
```

Once you run the above functions in the **debugger**, you can run the following function in the **debuggee**:

```clike
BOOLEAN
hyperdbg_u_connect_current_debugger_using_com_port(const CHAR * port_name, DWORD baudrate);
```

To disconnect to the current debuggee, you need to use the following function in `libhyperdbg`:

```clike
BOOLEAN
hyperdbg_u_debug_close_remote_debugger();
```

### Remarks

1. The following values are valid baud rates for serial connections.

| Baud rate  |
| ---------- |
| **110**    |
| **300**    |
| **600**    |
| **1200**   |
| **2400**   |
| **4800**   |
| **9600**   |
| **14400**  |
| **19200**  |
| **38400**  |
| **56000**  |
| **57600**  |
| **115200** |
| **128000** |
| **256000** |

The following COM ports are valid for debugging.

| COM Port |
| -------- |
| **com1** |
| **com2** |
| **com3** |
| **com4** |

### Requirements

None

### Related

[Attach to a remote machine](https://docs.hyperdbg.org/getting-started/attach-to-hyperdbg/attach-to-remote-machine)
