---
description: Description of the '.dump' command in HyperDbg.
---

# .dump (save the virtual memory into a file)

### Command

> .dump

### Syntax

> .dump \[FromAddress (hex)] \[ToAddress (hex)] \[pid ProcessId (hex)] \[path Path (string)]

### Description

Saves a range of the **virtual** memory into a file.

### Parameters

**\[FromAddress (hex)]**

The start **virtual** address of where it needs to be dumped.

**\[ToAddress (hex)]**

The end of the **virtual** address of where it needs to be dumped.

**\[pid ProcessId (hex)] (optional)**

The Process ID in hex format that we want to see the memory from its context (**cr3**).

**\[path Path (string)]**

The path of where the dump file needs to be saved.

{% hint style="info" %}
If you don't specify the **pid**, then the default **pid** is the current process (HyperDbg) process layout of memory.
{% endhint %}

{% hint style="danger" %}
In the [Debugger Mode](https://docs.hyperdbg.org/using-hyperdbg/prerequisites/operation-modes#debugger-mode), the **pid** (parameter) is ignored. If you want to view another process memory, use the '[.process](https://docs.hyperdbg.org/commands/meta-commands/.process)' command to switch to another process memory layout.
{% endhint %}

### Examples

The following command saves the virtual memory from the address `fffff801deadb000` to `fffff801deade054` in the file  `c:\rev\dump1.dmp`.

```
HyperDbg> .dump fffff801deadb000 fffff801deade054 path c:\rev\dump1.dmp
the dump file is saved at: c:\rev\dump1.dmp
```

The following command saves the virtual memory from the address `401000` to `40b000` located at a process with **pid** equal to **0x1c0** in the file  `c:\rev\dump2.dmp`.

```diff
HyperDbg> .dump 401000 40b000 pid 1c0 path c:\rev\dump2.dmp
the dump file is saved at: c:\rev\dump2.dmp
```

The following command saves the virtual memory from the address `401000` to `401000+ff00` located at the current process in the file  `c:\rev\dump3.dmp`.

```diff
HyperDbg> .dump 401000 401000+ff00 path c:\rev\dump3.dmp
the dump file is saved at: c:\rev\dump3.dmp
```

### IOCTL

This command reads the memory in the 4KB chunks and is the same as [this](https://docs.hyperdbg.org/commands/debugging-commands/d#ioctl) command, just you have to set the memory reading `Style` to `DEBUGGER_SHOW_COMMAND_DUMP`.

### Remarks

Starting from **v0.6**, this command was added to the HyperDbg debugger.

The '[!dump](https://docs.hyperdbg.org/commands/extension-commands/dump)' command is used for dumping the **physical** memory.

If you're performing a dump of a large memory range, you may come across an "_invalid address_" error at certain addresses. If you're sure that the address is valid then the address is either paged out or not currently accessible in the current CR3 page table. You can utilize the '[.pagein](https://docs.hyperdbg.org/commands/meta-commands/.pagein)' command. This command loads the corresponding page table into memory and injects a page fault (#PF). You can check whether the address is valid or not by examining the page tables using the '[!pte](https://docs.hyperdbg.org/commands/extension-commands/pte)' command.

This command is guaranteed to keep debuggee in a halt state (in Debugger Mode); thus, nothing will change during its execution.

### Requirements

None

### Related

[!dump (save the physical memory into a file)](https://docs.hyperdbg.org/commands/extension-commands/dump)

[db, dc, dd, dq (read virtual memory)](https://docs.hyperdbg.org/commands/debugging-commands/d)

[.pagein (bring the page into the RAM)](https://docs.hyperdbg.org/commands/meta-commands/.pagein)
