---
description: Description of the '.start' command in HyperDbg.
---

# .start (start a new process)

### Command

> .start

### Syntax

> .start \[path Path (string)] \[Parameters (string)]

### Description

Starts a program with the specific parameters and breaks when the PE file reaches the entrypoint.

{% hint style="danger" %}
The user-mode debugger is still in the beta version and not stable. We decided to exclude it from this release and release it in future versions. If you want to test the user-mode debugger in **VMI Mode**, you should build HyperDbg with special instructions. Please follow the instruction [here](https://docs.hyperdbg.org/getting-started/build-and-install#activating-user-mode-debugger).

In contrast with the kernel debugger, the user debugger is still very basic and needs a lot of tests and improvements. We **highly recommend** not to run the user debugger in your bare metal system. Instead, run it on a [supported virtual machine](https://docs.hyperdbg.org/tips-and-tricks/nested-virtualization-environments/supported-virtual-machines) to won't end up with a Blue Screen of Death (BSOD) in your primary device. Please keep reporting the issues to improve the user debugger.
{% endhint %}

{% hint style="info" %}
This command won't use any Windows API for intercepting and pausing threads, and everything is done at the hypervisor level.
{% endhint %}

### Parameters

**\[path Path (string)]**

The target file path

**\[Parameters (string)] (optional)**

The parameter(s) to the file

### Examples

Imagine we want to start a program without parameters.

```
0: kHyperDbg> .start path C:\file\my_file.exe
```

If your file path contains a space character, you should write the path between two quotes; otherwise, it will be interpreted as parameters.

```
0: kHyperDbg> .start path "C:\my files\my file.exe"
```

If you want to pass parameters to your target file. Imagine we want to pass `-m 1 -o out.txt` parameters to our exe file.

```
0: kHyperDbg> .start path "C:\my files\my file.exe" -m 1 -o out.txt
```

### SDK

To start a process in the target debuggee, you need to use the following function in `libhyperdbg`:

```clike
BOOLEAN
hyperdbg_u_start_process(const WCHAR * path);
```

To start a process in the target debuggee with custom arguments, you need to use the following function in `libhyperdbg`:

```clike
BOOLEAN
hyperdbg_u_start_process_with_args(const WCHAR * path, const WCHAR * arguments);
```

### Remarks

This command will continue the debuggee for some time (in Debugger Mode). This means that you lose the current context (registers & memory) after executing this command.

### Requirements

None

### Related

[.restart (restart the process)](https://docs.hyperdbg.org/commands/meta-commands/.restart)

[.attach (attach to a process)](https://docs.hyperdbg.org/commands/meta-commands/.attach)

[.detach (detach from the process)](https://docs.hyperdbg.org/commands/meta-commands/.detach)

[.switch (show the list and switch between active debugging threads)](https://docs.hyperdbg.org/commands/meta-commands/.switch)

[.kill (terminate the process)](https://docs.hyperdbg.org/commands/meta-commands/.kill)

[.pagein (bring the page into the RAM)](https://docs.hyperdbg.org/commands/meta-commands/.pagein)
